4.3. Methods
Experiment animals 
We established D. galeata clones  from resting eggs collected from a sediment core collected in the Friedrichshafen Bay (47°37’N, 9°29’E, Wessels et al.1999) of Upper Lake Constance. The 50 cm long sediment core was sliced at 1 cm intervals. The samples then were washed under running water through a 250 µm mesh size sieve.  The ephippia were isolated using a Stemi 2000-C binocular and immediately transferred to 24-well plates filled with age filtered lake water. Each well contained 1 ephippia and 0.05 ml-1 food suspension green algae Acutodesmus obliquus was added to assure food availability when the neonates hatched from the resting eggs. The well-plates were checked daily for hatched neonates. After hatching, one day old neonates were transferred to a new medium. These new Daphnia clones were cultivated in filtered aged like water and kept at 20oC room, fed by green algae Acutodesmus obliquus. 
Above four generation synchronized age mother were raised and their synchronized second clutch (neonates born within 12 hours) were used as experimental animals. Hatching of resting eggs, Daphnia culturing and the experiment were done in in 20oC room temperature with artificial daylight (16:8 L:D). Daphnids were fed during both experiments with freshly prepared food the green alga Acutodesmus obliquus (Culture Collection of Algae, University of Göttingen, Germany, SAG 276-3a), which was grown semi-continuously at 20 °C in 2-L batch cultures in Cyano medium (Jüttner et al. 1983) and harvest in the late-exponential growth phase (illumination at 120 µmol quanta m-2 s-1).
Kairomone experiment
The morphological of body traits were investigated in cultured Daphnia exposed with kairomone predator. 12 Days old Daphnids (assumed has already reached the age at first reproduction) were the experiment animals and expected to have the second clutch during kairomone exposure. From the 50 cm sediment core we abled to hatch resting eggs down to a maximum of 18 cm sediment depth. This depth layer corresponds to approximately 1970 based on counting of sediment laminae and the presence of distinct marker beds resulting from large flood events in specific years (Milan et al. 2022) . We chose 30 clones D. galeata whereas 15 clones were collected from sediment core below 10 cm and 15 clones collected from depths between 11-18 cm. 10 cm corresponds to approximately the mid-1990s, e.g. when total phosphorus concentration in the lake dropped below 25 µg TP/L and Daphnia galeata in the lake strongly declined in abundance (Straile, 2015 and unpublished data). In the following we call the clones isolated from a layer depth > 10 cm “eutrophic” clones and clones from a layer depth < 10 cm ”oligotrophic” clones.
 	We used live predators Leptodora kindtii and Bythotrephes longimanus as kairomone source, which were caught from Lake Constance with net hauls towed behind a boat. The experiment consisted of three treatments, namely control (C), Bythotrephes (B), and Leptodora (L). Each experimental unit was composed of a 200 mL beaker filled with 180 mL filtered (< 0.2 µm) aged lake water containing five Daphnids. All beakers contained a cylindrical plastic cage (4 cm diameter and 6 cm height) with a 140-µm nylon mesh that ensured separation between predators and D. galeata while guaranteeing the exchange of kairomones. Five individuals of Bythotrephes and Leptodora were placed in the plastic cages (B and L treatment), respectively; control (C) cages were left empty. Plastic cages including predators were replaced every second day. 
Daphniids were fed every second day with freshly prepared food 1 mg C L-1 of the green alga Acutodesmus obliquus. The animals were transferred into new jars after 7 days and fed thereafter with 2 mg C L-1 to account for the increased population sizes in each jar. The experiment was terminated after 15 days and daphniids were stored in 70 % ethanol (Black & Dodson 1990). Further they were subsequently examined using a stemi 2000-C binocular equipped with a camera and an image analyzing software. Body length, body width), head length, head width, spina size, and eye size (length, diameter, and area), and rostrum size were measured as shown in Figure 1. 
